


Funds: Accounting Software

    Version 0.0.1 (the zero means it's still in initial development, hopefully version 1 is coming soon)

Developed By: Christopher S. Francis
    &copy; 2021







Summary

After having a laptop stolen a few years back I switched tracking my personal finances from accounting software to a customized spreadsheet. When time came for a new laptop again I decided to go back to accounting software, however, the accounting software I've been using personally doesn't exactly fit my needs: it's designed for a large corporation which means there is way more there than I need, small input issues -I am constantly editing transactions by accident so trying to make that less likely to happen without making it difficult to edit transactions, I was also thinking that the standard accounting statements should be the primary appearance of the GUI not an afterthought to an overly fancy interface then tacked on and hidden a couple menus deep.

I don't want a general purpose spreadsheet modified to fit my needs, I want to use specific purpose software set up to automate double entry accounting, but I don't want one of those massive conglomerations of tools that I'll never use and find myself getting lost in the menus for. So that's what I tried to develop here: simplicity is the name of the game... Essentially it's just a balance sheet for an overview of the accounts and a ledger to enter and edit transactions. In the background the software handles the standard double-entry method balancing of accounts while the data is stored in nested collections of Linked Lists rather than a Relational Database, and just the small number of tools I find myself needing.








Design Details:

It's open source software so if you are interested in customizing some accounting software to fit your exact needs the simplistic idea I was going for here may make an ideal starting point.

PLATFORM: Coded in Java with Graphical User interface in JavaFX so that the same code can readily be used in desktop, mobile, and web scenarios. 
Find the source-code here: https://github.com/francis-chris5/Funds 
Find the javadocs here: https://francis-chris5.github.io/Funds/javadoc/Funds/package-summary.html 

STRUCTURE: 
Books are the working files (new, save, open, etc.)
Books are collections of Accounts
Accounts are collections of Transactions
Transactions are collections of datafields describing a real world monetary exchange
Everything is tied together via a nested assortment of Linked Lists


